For those of you that are using
setTimeout and setInterval,
there is a much better way that
has been for a while now, but
it's still not the way that
most developers are using.
It's requestAnimationFrame.
It's part of the HTML5 today.
And let us execute code on the next
frame before painting the frame.
Remember that we saw that diagram
with what's going on there.
And it's guaranteed to be executed on the
next frame because you know what happened
with setTimeout.
So setTimeout or setInterval.
So if I do setInterval, and
execute some code, okay?
I do something here like say "Hello".
And then I say 100.
What do you think that
this code is going to do?
>> Console log ten times.
>> Console log ten times per second,
right?
Is it guaranteed?
>> No, it'll end based on where it
isn't like the call queue that can-
>> Yeah, in fact,
it is not guaranteed at all.
In fact, if you use instead of
setInterval, setTimeout, and
let's say you have a very important
task that you need to do in one second.
You are confident that that will work.
But not really.
This is how it works.
So when we have that process of painting,
things that we have been seeing here.
So setTimeout are actually being
executed within idle callback time.
Between one frame and the other frame.
The problem is that what happens
if there is no idle callback time?
You have some code here
in your input events.
You have an onclick.
You have something that
is taking a lot of time.
So there is no idle time.
The browser says no, I'm sorry,
I need to make the other frame,
I need to make the other frame, and
maybe it doesn't have enough
time to execute your timer.
So actually,
every time you are saying setTimeout or
setInterval, you are actually,
it's not a real timer,
it's not an alarm that will wake
up that code in one second.
It's just setting that function
in some kind of a queue
in the table of call to
execute in the future.
And the 1000 is not a timer.
It's not an alarm.
It's actually an expiration date.
So when the browser is doing nothing,
it says, okay, let's go and see if we
have something pending and he goes over
the list and see if it's expired or not.
If it's expired it will execute it but
maybe has expire 10 seconds ago so
it's going to execute that later.
And of course, that's bad for
a lot of situations.
So that's why it's a better
idea to use request animation
frame because it's guaranteed to be
executed at that moment on every frame.
But your code should be short.
Right, why?
Because if it's too long,
you will push the whole frame, and
then we'll have a frame
drop in the animation.
So that's why we should keep that code
small under 10 milliseconds of execution.
It's more in execution not in size.
It's much better than timers, okay?
You just request animation frame and
do some code that's all and
it's guaranteed is going to be
executed on the next frame.
Sometimes you need to do something in that
diagram, but it's not really important.
So if it's enough time you wanna
execute that, but if not, I'm okay.
Okay, I can wait.
For that,
we can use that idle time if it's there.
It's called idle callback.
Actually, the spec is known
as request background task.
And in that case,
you will use that time that can be long or
short, you can try to use that one, okay?
For that, you use then request idle
callback and you pass a function.
Makes sense?
It's just another way that you have
to make things more performant.
Something relatively new on
the web is isInputPending.
If you look at that diagram,
it's has one specific blue color there.
I'm not sure if you recognize that blue.
When I tell you why,
you will recognize it.
That's Facebook's blue.
Because that API was proposed by Facebook.
And that's from the original documentation
that was proposed by Facebook.
And now it's on Chrome, that API.
isInputPending will give
you the idea of if there is
anything in the queue pending
that needs to be processed.
So let's say you have a long runnig
JavaScript you need to execute, okay?
Then you end that process and
at that moment,
the browser has time to check if the user
clicked or scrolled, input events.
But that can lead to a problem because for
a lot of milliseconds or
even seconds,
the user didn't see any change.
Well, instead of doing that, you can split
your JavaScript and every once in a while,
you can check is there any
input pending to the processed.
And if the answer is yes, you'll release
the threat and you'll continue later.
So you register another
request animation frame.
Does that make sense?
So you leave, it's just a flag from
the browser to the developer saying,
I have pending things, so
if you can, leave me some space.
Does it make sense?
That is input pending.
So then you can make small spaces asking.
Does it make sense?
And because you're asking, you are not
yielding between the browser and
your code.
You're just asking, if there is
anything pending, I will give you time.
If not, I don't need to give you time.
That's much faster, okay?
This is how it works in terms of code.
And it's not a big deal,
we don't need to cover it too deeply, but
actually, it's
navigator.scheduling.isInputPending().